JAVA upgrade (#5828)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: blog-collector/2025-09-30-installed.md

---

> title: JAVA Upgrade (Installed Collector)

Reviewer: There will be version change here, so the title goes here with the version number.

> title: JAVA Upgrade (Installed Collector)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Java Upgrade (Installed Collector)
```

hide_table_of_contents: true
image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> Sumo Logic has used Java 8 for Installed Collectors until now. Since Java 8 reached end of public updates in January 2019 and newer versions offer better performance and security, we are upgrading Installed Collectors to use Java 17.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sumo Logic has been using Java 8 for its Installed Collectors until now. However, with Java 8 reaching its end of public updates in January 2019, and with newer Java versions offering significant improvements in both performance and security, we are upgrading our Installed Collectors to Java 17. This upgrade will provide enhanced functionality, better security patches, and overall improved system efficiency.
```

> If you're using a custom bundled JRE, ensure it's newer than Java 8. If not, upgrade to Java 17 or a more recent version.

Reviewer 3: Not newer than 8, it's atleast 17. Also can custom bundled JRE be modified to convey better. 

Something like "If you're running collector with your own custom JRE, ensure JRE version is 17 or higher. If not, upgrade to Java 17 or a more recent version."
